---
title: Choose result format
---
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import GxData from '../_core_components/_data.jsx';

import PrereqPython from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_python_installation.md'
import PrereqGx from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_gx_installation.md'
import PrereqDataContext from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_preconfigured_data_context.md'
import PrereqValidationDefinition from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_validation_definition.md'

import BasicResultFormat from './_choose_result_format/_BASIC.md';
import BooleanOnlyResultFormat from './_choose_result_format/_BOOLEAN_ONLY.md';
import CompleteResultFormat from './_choose_result_format/_COMPLETE.md';
import SummaryResultFormat from './_choose_result_format/_SUMMARY.md';

import ResultFormatKeyReferenceTable from './_choose_result_format/_optional_key_reference_table.md';
import ResultOutputReferenceTable from './_choose_result_format/_result_output_reference_table.md';
import ResultVerbosityReferenceTable from './_choose_result_format/_result_verbosity_reference_table.md';

import AdditionalSettingsBasic from './_choose_result_format/_additional_settings/_BASIC.md';
import AdditionalSettingsSummary from './_choose_result_format/_additional_settings/_SUMMARY.md';
import AdditionalSettingsComplete from './_choose_result_format/_additional_settings/_COMPLETE.md';


When you validate data with {GxData.product_name} you can set the level of detail returned in your Validation Results by specifying a value for the optional `result_format` parameter.  These settings will be applied to the results returned by each validated Expectation.

Typical use cases customizing Result Format settings include summarizing values that cause Expectations to fail durring data exploration, retrieving failed rows to facilitate cleaning data, or excluding excess Validation Result data in published Data Docs.

## Define a Result Format configuration

The `result_format` parameter takes in a dictionary of configuration settings.

1. Create a dictionary and set the verbosity of returned Validation Results.

   The verbosity of your Validation Results can be set as the value of the key `"result_format"` in your Result Format dictionary.  In order from least verbosity to greatest detail, the valid values for the `"result_format"` key are: 

   - `"BOOLEAN_ONLY"`
   - `"BASIC"`
   - `"SUMMARY"`
   - `"COMPLETE"`.

   The default verbosity level of Validation Results generated by Expectations is `"SUMMARY"`.

   Select a value below to see example code for that Result Format and what information is returned at that level of verbosity:

   <Tabs queryString="result_format_string" groupId="result_format_string" defaultValue='basic'>

   <TabItem value="boolean" label='"BOOLEAN_ONLY"'>
      <BooleanOnlyResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>
   
   <TabItem value="basic" label='"BASIC"'>
      <BasicResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="summary" label='"SUMMARY"'>
      <SummaryResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="complete" label='"COMPLETE"'>
      <CompleteResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

3. Optional. Specify configurations for additional settings available to the base `result_format`.

   Once you have defined the base configuration in your `result_format` key, you can further tailor the format of your Validation Results by defining additional key/value pairs in your Result Format dictionary.

   Reference the table below for valid keys and how they influence the format of generated Validation Results:

   <Tabs queryString="result_format_string" groupId="result_format_string" defaultValue='basic'>

   <TabItem value="boolean" label='"BOOLEAN_ONLY"'>
      A '"BOOLEAN_ONLY"' result format does not support additional settings.
   </TabItem>
   
   <TabItem value="basic" label='"BASIC"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsBasic/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="summary" label='"SUMMARY"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsSummary/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="complete" label='"COMPLETE"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsComplete/>
   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

## Apply a Result Format configuration

You can pass a `result_format` configuration in to a Validation Definition's `.run(...)` method.

### Prerequisites
- <PrereqPython/>.
- <PrereqGx/>.
- <PrereqDataContext/>.
- <PrereqValidationDefinition/>.
- A [Result Format configuration](#define-a-result-format-configuration). In these examples your result format is stored as a dictionary in the variable `my_result_format`.

### Apply a Result Format configuration to a Validation Definition

1. Retrieve your Validation Definition.

   Update the value of `definition_name` in the following code and execute it to retrieve your Validation Definition:

   ```python title="Python
   import great_expectations as gx
   context = gx.get_context
   
   definition_name = "my_validation_definition"
   my_validation_definition = context.validation_definitions.get(name=definition_name)
   ```

2. Pass the Result Format to the Validation Definition at runtime:

   ```python title="Python"
   my_validation_definition.run(result_format=my_result_format)
   ```

   :::tip
   You can also create a persisting Result Format configuration by passing it in as the `result_format` parameter when a Checkpoint is created.  The Result Format will be applied every time the Checkpoint is run.
   :::

4. Review your results:

   ```python title="Python"
   print(validation_result)
   ```

## Validation Results reference tables

<Tabs queryString="results" groupId="results" defaultValue='fields'>

   <TabItem value="fields" label="Information in result fields">
      <ResultOutputReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="verbosity" label="Result fields provided by verbosity level">
      <ResultVerbosityReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="result_format_keys" label="Result Format keys">
      <ResultFormatKeyReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

</Tabs>