docs/guides/expectations/how_to_create_and_edit_expectations_in_bulk.md, before:

---
title: How to create and edit Expectations in bulk
---

import Prerequisites from '../../guides/connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'

The `JsonSchemaProfiler` helps you quickly create Expectation Suites from jsonschema files.

<Prerequisites>

* Have a valid jsonschema file that has top level object of type object.

</Prerequisites>

:::warning

This implementation does not traverse any levels of nesting.

:::

## Steps

### 1.Set a filename and a suite name

````python
jsonschema_file = "YOUR_JSON_SCHEMA_FILE.json"
suite_name = "YOUR_SUITE_NAME"
````

### 2. Load a DataContext

````python
context = ge.data_context.DataContext()
````

### 3. Load the jsonschema file

````python
with open(jsonschema_file, "r") as f:
    schema = json.load(f)
````

### 4. Instantiate the profiler

````python
profiler = JsonSchemaProfiler()
````

### 5. Create the suite

````python
suite = profiler.profile(schema, suite_name)
````
### 6. Save the suite

````python
context.save_expectation_suite(suite)
````

### 7. Optionally, generate Data Docs and review the results there.

Data Docs provides a concise and useful way to review the Expectation Suite that has been created.

````console
context.build_data_docs()

You can also review and update the Expectations created by the profiler to get to the Expectation Suite you want using ``great_expectations suite edit``.
````

## Additional notes

:::important

Note that JsonSchemaProfiler generates Expectation Suites using column map expectations, which assumes a tabular data structure, because Great Expectations does not currently support nested data structures.

:::

The full example script is here:

````python
import json
import great_expectations as ge
from great_expectations.profile.json_schema_profiler import JsonSchemaProfiler

jsonschema_file = "YOUR_JSON_SCHEMA_FILE.json"
suite_name = "YOUR_SUITE_NAME"

context = ge.data_context.DataContext()

with open(jsonschema_file, "r") as f:
    raw_json = f.read()
    schema = json.loads(raw_json)

print("Generating suite...")
profiler = JsonSchemaProfiler()
suite = profiler.profile(schema, suite_name)
context.save_expectation_suite(suite)
````

Commit message:

- Adds technical terms to all documents under the "Create Expectations: Core sklls" section of the ToC, as well as to the "Create Expectations: Overview" document. - Some additional edits to bring docs up to documentation/how-to guide standards.

docs/guides/expectations/how_to_create_and_edit_expectations_in_bulk.md, after:

---
title: How to create and edit Expectations in bulk
---

import Prerequisites from '../../guides/connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'
import TechnicalTag from '@site/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';

The `JsonSchemaProfiler` helps you quickly create <TechnicalTag tag="expectation_suite" text="Expectation Suites" /> from jsonschema files.

<Prerequisites>

* Have a valid jsonschema file that has top level object of type object.

</Prerequisites>

:::warning

This implementation does not traverse any levels of nesting.

:::

## Steps

### 1.Set a filename and a suite name

````python
jsonschema_file = "YOUR_JSON_SCHEMA_FILE.json"
suite_name = "YOUR_SUITE_NAME"
````

### 2. Load a DataContext

````python
context = ge.data_context.DataContext()
````

### 3. Load the jsonschema file

````python
with open(jsonschema_file, "r") as f:
    schema = json.load(f)
````

### 4. Instantiate the profiler

````python
profiler = JsonSchemaProfiler()
````

### 5. Create the suite

````python
suite = profiler.profile(schema, suite_name)
````
### 6. Save the suite

````python
context.save_expectation_suite(suite)
````

### 7. Optionally, generate Data Docs and review the results there.

<TechnicalTag tag="data_docs" text="Data Docs" /> provides a concise and useful way to review the Expectation Suite that has been created.

In python, this is done by calling the `build_data_docs()` method of your <TechnicalTag tag="data_context" text="Data Context" />.

```python
context.build_data_docs()
```

You can also review and update the Expectations created by the <TechnicalTag tag="profiler" text="Profiler" /> to get to the Expectation Suite you want using:

```console
great_expectations suite edit
```

## Additional notes

:::important

Note that `JsonSchemaProfiler` generates Expectation Suites using column map <TechnicalTag tag="expectation" text="Expectations" />, which assumes a tabular data structure, because Great Expectations does not currently support nested data structures.

:::

The full example script is here:

````python
import json
import great_expectations as ge
from great_expectations.profile.json_schema_profiler import JsonSchemaProfiler

jsonschema_file = "YOUR_JSON_SCHEMA_FILE.json"
suite_name = "YOUR_SUITE_NAME"

context = ge.data_context.DataContext()

with open(jsonschema_file, "r") as f:
    raw_json = f.read()
    schema = json.loads(raw_json)

print("Generating suite...")
profiler = JsonSchemaProfiler()
suite = profiler.profile(schema, suite_name)
context.save_expectation_suite(suite)
````
