---
id: data_docs
title: Data Docs
---
import UniversalMap from '/docs/images/universal_map/_universal_map.mdx';
import TechnicalTag from '../term_tags/_tag.mdx';
import SetupHeader from '/docs/images/universal_map/_um_setup_header.mdx'
import CreateHeader from '/docs/images/universal_map/_um_create_header.mdx';
import ValidateHeader from '/docs/images/universal_map/_um_validate_header.mdx';

<UniversalMap setup='active' connect='inactive' create='active' validate='active'/> 

Data Docs are human-readable documentation that is generated from Great Expectations metadata and provides details on <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="expectation" text="Expectations" />, <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="validation_result" text="Validation Results" />,  and so on.

Automatically compiling your data test documentation into Data Docs keeps your documentation current.

## Relationship to other objects

You can use Data Docs to view <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="expectation_suite" text="Expectation Suites" /> and Validation Results.  With a customized <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="renderer" text="Renderer" />, you can extend what they display and how.  You can issue a command to update your Data Docs from your <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="data_context" text="Data Context" />.  Alternatively, you can include the `UpdateDataDocsAction` <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="action" text="Action" /> in a <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="checkpoint" text="Checkpoint's" /> `action_list` to trigger an update of your Data Docs with the Validation Results that were generated after the Checkpoint ran. 

## Use cases

You can configure multiple Data Docs sites when you set up your Great Expectations project.  This allows you to tailor the information that is displayed by Data Docs as well as how they are hosted.  For more information on setting up your Data Docs, see [how to configure them for specific hosting environments](../guides/setup/index.md#data-docs).

You can view your saved Expectation Suites in Data Docs.  

Saved Validation Results are displayed in any Data Docs site that is configured to show them.  If you build your Data Docs from the Data Context, the process renders Data Docs for all of your Validation Results.  Alternatively, you can use the `UpdateDataDocsAction` Action in a Checkpoint's `action_list` to update your Data Docs with just the Validation Results generated by that checkpoint.

## Readability

Data Docs provide Expectation Suites and Validation Results in a human-readable format without the need to manually parse their stored values and configurations. You can also [add comments to your Expectations that will be displayed in your Data Docs](../guides/expectations/advanced/how_to_add_comments_to_expectations_and_display_them_in_data_docs.md).

## Versatility

The following are the most common use cases for displaying information in your Data Docs:

- Visualize all Great Expectations artifacts from the local repository of a project as HTML: Expectation Suites, Validation Results and profiling results.
- Maintain a "shared source of truth" for a team working on a data project. Such documentation renders all the artifacts committed in the source control system (Expectation Suites and profiling results) and a continuously updating data quality report, built from a chronological list of validations by run id.
- Share a spec of a dataset with a client or a partner. This is similar to API documentation in software development. This documentation would include profiling results of the dataset to give the reader a quick way to grasp what thedata looks like, and one or more Expectation Suites that encode what is expected from the data to be considered valid.

To support these use cases, ultiple sites can be configured inside a project, each suitable for a particular data documentation use case.

## Access

Data Docs are rendered as HTML files, and you can open them in any browser.

## Create Data Docs

If you haven't rendered your Data Docs, run the following command to use your Data Context to build your Data Docs:

```python title="Python code"
import great_expectations as gx
context = gx.get_context()
context.build_data_docs()
```

### Configuration

Data Docs sites are configured under the `data_docs_sites` key in your deployment's `great_expectations.yml` file. Users can specify:

- which <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="datasource" text="Datasources" /> to document (by default, all)
- whether to include Expectations, validations and profiling results sections
- where the Expectations and validations should be read from (filesystem, S3, Azure, or GCS)
- where the HTML files should be written (filesystem, S3, Azure, or GCS)
- which <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="renderer" text="Renderer" /> and view class should be used to render each section

For more information, see [how to host and share Data Docs in specific environments](../guides/setup/index.md#data-docs).