docs/docusaurus/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/instantiating_data_contexts/instantiate_data_context.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Instantiate a Data Context"
title: "Instantiate a Data Context"
id: instantiate_data_context
description: Create and configure a Great Expectations Data Context.
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import TechnicalTag from '/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';
import Prerequisites from '/docs/components/_prerequisites.jsx'
import GxImport from '/docs/components/setup/python_environment/_gx_import.md'
import DataContextVerifyContents from '/docs/components/setup/data_context/_data_context_verify_contents.md'
import AdmonitionConvertToFileContext from '/docs/components/setup/data_context/_admonition_convert_to_file_context.md'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';


A <TechnicalTag tag="data_context" text="Data Context" /> contains the configurations for <TechnicalTag tag="expectation" text="Expectations" />, <TechnicalTag tag="store" text="Metadata Stores" />, <TechnicalTag tag="data_docs" text="Data Docs" />, <TechnicalTag tag="checkpoint" text="Checkpoints" />, and all things related to working with Great Expectations (GX).  Use the information provided here to instantiate a Data Context so that you can continue working with previously defined GX configurations.

<Tabs
  groupId="install-gx"
  defaultValue='quick'
  values={[
  {label: 'Existing Filesystem', value:'quick'},
  {label: 'Filesystem with Python', value:'python'},
  {label: 'Specific Filesystem', value:'specific'},
  {label: 'Ephemeral', value:'ephemeral'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="quick">

## Existing Filesystem

Instantiate an existing Filesystem Data Context so that you can continue working with previously defined GX configurations.

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {true} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

</Prerequisites>

### Import GX

<GxImport />

### Run the `get_context(...)` method

To quickly acquire a Data Context, use the `get_context(...)` method without any defined parameters:

```python title="Python code"
context = gx.get_context()
```

This functions as a convenience method for initializing, instantiating, and returning a Data Context.  In the absence of parameters defining its behavior, calling `get_context()` returns a Cloud Data Context, a Filesystem Data Context, or an Ephemeral Data Context depending on what type of Data Context has previously been initialized with your GX install.

If you have GX Cloud configured on your system, `get_context()` instantiates and returns a Cloud Data Context. Otherwise, `get_context()`  instantiates and returns the last accessed Filesystem Data Context. If a previously initialized Filesystem Data Context cannot be found, `get_context()` initializes, instantiates, and returns a temporary in-memory Ephemeral Data Context.


:::info Saving the contents of an Ephemeral Data Context for future use

<AdmonitionConvertToFileContext />

:::

### Verify Data Context content 

<DataContextVerifyContents />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python">

## Python

A <TechnicalTag tag="data_context" text="Data Context" /> is required in almost all Python scripts utilizing GX. Use Python code to initialize, instantiate, and verify the contents of a Filesystem Data Context.

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {true} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

</Prerequisites>

### Import GX

<GxImport />

### Determine the folder to initialize the Data Context in

Run the following command to initialize your Filesystem Data Context in an empty folder:

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_initialize_a_filesystem_data_context_in_python.py path_to_empty_folder"
```

### Create a context

You provide the path for your empty folder to the GX library's `FileDataContext.create(...)` method as the `project_root_dir` parameter.  Because you are providing a path to an empty folder, `FileDataContext.create(...)` initializes a Filesystem Data Context in that location.

For convenience, the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method instantiates and returns the newly initialized Data Context, which you can keep in a Python variable.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_initialize_a_filesystem_data_context_in_python.py initialize_filesystem_data_context"
```

:::info What if the folder is not empty?
If the `project_root_dir` provided to the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method points to a folder that does not already have a Data Context present, the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method initializes a Filesystem Data Context in that location even if other files and folders are present.  This allows you to initialize a Filesystem Data Context in a folder that contains your source data or other project related contents.

If a Data Context already exists in `project_root_dir`, the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method will not re-initialize it.  Instead, `FileDataContext.create(...)` instantiates and returns the existing Data Context.
:::

### Verify the Data Context content 

<DataContextVerifyContents />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="specific">

## Specific

If you're using GX for multiple projects, you might want to use a different Data Context for each project. Instantiate a specific Filesystem Data Context so that you can switch between sets of previously defined GX configurations.

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {true} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

- A previously initialized Filesystem Data Context. See [How to initialize a Filesystem Data Context in Python](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/initializing_data_contexts/how_to_initialize_a_filesystem_data_context_in_python).

</Prerequisites>

### Import GX

<GxImport />

### Specify a folder containing a previously initialized Filesystem Data Context

Each Filesystem Data Context has a root folder in which it was initialized.  This root folder identifies the specific Filesystem Data Context to instantiate.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_instantiate_a_specific_filesystem_data_context.py path_to_context_root_folder"
```

### Run the `get_context(...)` method

You provide the path for your empty folder to the GX library's `get_context(...)` method as the `context_root_dir` parameter. Because you are providing a path to an empty folder, the `get_context(...)` method instantiates and return the Data Context at that location.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_instantiate_a_specific_filesystem_data_context.py get_filesystem_data_context"
```

:::info What if the folder does not contain a Data Context?
If the `context_root_dir` provided to the `get_context(...)` method points to a folder that does not already have a Data Context, the `get_context(...)` method initializes a new Filesystem Data Context in that location.

The `get_context(...)` method instantiates and returns the newly initialized Data Context.
:::

### Verify the Data Context content 

<DataContextVerifyContents />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ephemeral">

## Ephemeral

An Ephemeral Data Context is a temporary, in-memory Data Context.  They are ideal for doing data exploration and initial analysis when you do not want to save anything to an existing project, or for when you need to work in a hosted environment such as an EMR Spark Cluster.

An Ephemeral Data Context does not persist beyond the current Python session. To keep the contents of your Ephemeral Data Context for future use, see [How to convert an Ephemeral Data Context to a Filesystem Data Context](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/how_to_convert_an_ephemeral_data_context_to_a_filesystem_data_context).

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites>

- A Great Expectations instance. See [Setup: Overview](../../setup_overview.md).

</Prerequisites> 

### Import classes

To create your Data Context, you'll create a configuration that uses in-memory Metadata Stores. 

1. Run the following command to import the `DataContextConfig` and the `InMemoryStoreBackendDefaults` classes:

    ```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py import_data_context_config_with_in_memory_store_backend"
    ```

2. Run the following command to import the `EphemeralDataContext` class:

    ```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py import_ephemeral_data_context"
    ```

### Create the Data Context configuration

Run the following command to create a Data Context configuration that specifies the use of in-memory Metadata Stores and pass in an instance of the `InMemoryStoreBackendDefaults` class as a parameter when initializing an instance of the `DataContextConfig` class:

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py instantiate_data_context_config_with_in_memory_store_backend"
```

### Instantiate an Ephemeral Data Context

Run the following command to initialize the `EphemeralDataContext` class while passing in the `DataContextConfig` instance you created as the value of the `project_config` parameter.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py instantiate_ephemeral_data_context"
```

:::info Saving the contents of an Ephemeral Data Context for future use

<AdmonitionConvertToFileContext />

:::

### Connect GX to source data systems

Now that you have an Ephemeral Data Context you can connect GX to your data. See the following topics:

<ConnectingToDataFluently />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next steps

To customize a Data Context configuration for Metadata Stores and Data Docs, see:
- [How to configure an Expectation Store on a filesystem](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_an_expectation_store_on_a_filesystem)
- [How to configure a Validation Result Store on a filesystem](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_a_validation_result_store_on_a_filesystem)
- [How to configure and use a Metric Store](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_a_metricsstore)
- [How to host and share Data Docs on a filesystem](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_docs/how_to_host_and_share_data_docs_on_a_filesystem)

To connecting GX to your source data:
- [How to configure a Pandas Datasource](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_pandas_datasource)
- [How to configure a Spark Datasource](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_spark_datasource)
- [How to configure a SQL Datasource](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_sql_datasource)

## Related documentation

- To initialize and instantiate a temporary Data Context, see [Instantiate an Ephemeral Data Context](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/instantiating_data_contexts/instantiate_data_context)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Source Data and Datasource Format Update (#8435)
Co-authored-by: William Shin <will@greatexpectations.io>

docs/docusaurus/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/instantiating_data_contexts/instantiate_data_context.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Instantiate a Data Context"
title: "Instantiate a Data Context"
id: instantiate_data_context
description: Create and configure a Great Expectations Data Context.
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import TechnicalTag from '/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';
import Prerequisites from '/docs/components/_prerequisites.jsx'
import GxImport from '/docs/components/setup/python_environment/_gx_import.md'
import DataContextVerifyContents from '/docs/components/setup/data_context/_data_context_verify_contents.md'
import AdmonitionConvertToFileContext from '/docs/components/setup/data_context/_admonition_convert_to_file_context.md'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';


A <TechnicalTag tag="data_context" text="Data Context" /> contains the configurations for <TechnicalTag tag="expectation" text="Expectations" />, <TechnicalTag tag="store" text="Metadata Stores" />, <TechnicalTag tag="data_docs" text="Data Docs" />, <TechnicalTag tag="checkpoint" text="Checkpoints" />, and all things related to working with Great Expectations (GX).  Use the information provided here to instantiate a Data Context so that you can continue working with previously defined GX configurations.

<Tabs
  groupId="install-gx"
  defaultValue='quick'
  values={[
  {label: 'Existing Filesystem', value:'quick'},
  {label: 'Filesystem with Python', value:'python'},
  {label: 'Specific Filesystem', value:'specific'},
  {label: 'Ephemeral', value:'ephemeral'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="quick">

## Existing Filesystem

Instantiate an existing Filesystem Data Context so that you can continue working with previously defined GX configurations.

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {true} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

</Prerequisites>

### Import GX

<GxImport />

### Run the `get_context(...)` method

To quickly acquire a Data Context, use the `get_context(...)` method without any defined parameters:

```python title="Python code"
context = gx.get_context()
```

This functions as a convenience method for initializing, instantiating, and returning a Data Context.  In the absence of parameters defining its behavior, calling `get_context()` returns a Cloud Data Context, a Filesystem Data Context, or an Ephemeral Data Context depending on what type of Data Context has previously been initialized with your GX install.

If you have GX Cloud configured on your system, `get_context()` instantiates and returns a Cloud Data Context. Otherwise, `get_context()`  instantiates and returns the last accessed Filesystem Data Context. If a previously initialized Filesystem Data Context cannot be found, `get_context()` initializes, instantiates, and returns a temporary in-memory Ephemeral Data Context.


:::info Saving the contents of an Ephemeral Data Context for future use

<AdmonitionConvertToFileContext />

:::

### Verify Data Context content 

<DataContextVerifyContents />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python">

## Python

A <TechnicalTag tag="data_context" text="Data Context" /> is required in almost all Python scripts utilizing GX. Use Python code to initialize, instantiate, and verify the contents of a Filesystem Data Context.

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {true} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

</Prerequisites>

### Import GX

<GxImport />

### Determine the folder to initialize the Data Context in

Run the following command to initialize your Filesystem Data Context in an empty folder:

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_initialize_a_filesystem_data_context_in_python.py path_to_empty_folder"
```

### Create a context

You provide the path for your empty folder to the GX library's `FileDataContext.create(...)` method as the `project_root_dir` parameter.  Because you are providing a path to an empty folder, `FileDataContext.create(...)` initializes a Filesystem Data Context in that location.

For convenience, the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method instantiates and returns the newly initialized Data Context, which you can keep in a Python variable.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_initialize_a_filesystem_data_context_in_python.py initialize_filesystem_data_context"
```

:::info What if the folder is not empty?
If the `project_root_dir` provided to the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method points to a folder that does not already have a Data Context present, the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method initializes a Filesystem Data Context in that location even if other files and folders are present.  This allows you to initialize a Filesystem Data Context in a folder that contains your source data or other project related contents.

If a Data Context already exists in `project_root_dir`, the `FileDataContext.create(...)` method will not re-initialize it.  Instead, `FileDataContext.create(...)` instantiates and returns the existing Data Context.
:::

### Verify the Data Context content 

<DataContextVerifyContents />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="specific">

## Specific

If you're using GX for multiple projects, you might want to use a different Data Context for each project. Instantiate a specific Filesystem Data Context so that you can switch between sets of previously defined GX configurations.

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {true} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

- A previously initialized Filesystem Data Context. See [How to initialize a Filesystem Data Context in Python](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/initializing_data_contexts/how_to_initialize_a_filesystem_data_context_in_python).

</Prerequisites>

### Import GX

<GxImport />

### Specify a folder containing a previously initialized Filesystem Data Context

Each Filesystem Data Context has a root folder in which it was initialized.  This root folder identifies the specific Filesystem Data Context to instantiate.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_instantiate_a_specific_filesystem_data_context.py path_to_context_root_folder"
```

### Run the `get_context(...)` method

You provide the path for your empty folder to the GX library's `get_context(...)` method as the `context_root_dir` parameter. Because you are providing a path to an empty folder, the `get_context(...)` method instantiates and return the Data Context at that location.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_instantiate_a_specific_filesystem_data_context.py get_filesystem_data_context"
```

:::info What if the folder does not contain a Data Context?
If the `context_root_dir` provided to the `get_context(...)` method points to a folder that does not already have a Data Context, the `get_context(...)` method initializes a new Filesystem Data Context in that location.

The `get_context(...)` method instantiates and returns the newly initialized Data Context.
:::

### Verify the Data Context content 

<DataContextVerifyContents />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ephemeral">

## Ephemeral

An Ephemeral Data Context is a temporary, in-memory Data Context.  They are ideal for doing data exploration and initial analysis when you do not want to save anything to an existing project, or for when you need to work in a hosted environment such as an EMR Spark Cluster.

An Ephemeral Data Context does not persist beyond the current Python session. To keep the contents of your Ephemeral Data Context for future use, see [How to convert an Ephemeral Data Context to a Filesystem Data Context](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/how_to_convert_an_ephemeral_data_context_to_a_filesystem_data_context).

### Prerequisites

<Prerequisites>

- A Great Expectations instance. See [Setup: Overview](../../setup_overview.md).

</Prerequisites> 

### Import classes

To create your Data Context, you'll create a configuration that uses in-memory Metadata Stores. 

1. Run the following command to import the `DataContextConfig` and the `InMemoryStoreBackendDefaults` classes:

    ```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py import_data_context_config_with_in_memory_store_backend"
    ```

2. Run the following command to import the `EphemeralDataContext` class:

    ```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py import_ephemeral_data_context"
    ```

### Create the Data Context configuration

Run the following command to create a Data Context configuration that specifies the use of in-memory Metadata Stores and pass in an instance of the `InMemoryStoreBackendDefaults` class as a parameter when initializing an instance of the `DataContextConfig` class:

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py instantiate_data_context_config_with_in_memory_store_backend"
```

### Instantiate an Ephemeral Data Context

Run the following command to initialize the `EphemeralDataContext` class while passing in the `DataContextConfig` instance you created as the value of the `project_config` parameter.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_explicitly_instantiate_an_ephemeral_data_context.py instantiate_ephemeral_data_context"
```

:::info Saving the contents of an Ephemeral Data Context for future use

<AdmonitionConvertToFileContext />

:::

### Connect GX to source data systems

Now that you have an Ephemeral Data Context you can connect GX to your data. See the following topics:

<ConnectingToDataFluently />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next steps

To customize a Data Context configuration for Metadata Stores and Data Docs, see:
- [How to configure an Expectation Store on a filesystem](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_an_expectation_store_on_a_filesystem)
- [How to configure a Validation Result Store on a filesystem](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_a_validation_result_store_on_a_filesystem)
- [How to configure and use a Metric Store](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_a_metricsstore)
- [How to host and share Data Docs on a filesystem](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_docs/how_to_host_and_share_data_docs_on_a_filesystem)

To connecting GX to your source data:
- [How to configure a Pandas Data Source](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_pandas_datasource)
- [How to configure a Spark Data Source](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_spark_datasource)
- [How to configure a SQL Data Source](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_sql_datasource)

## Related documentation

- To initialize and instantiate a temporary Data Context, see [Instantiate an Ephemeral Data Context](/docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts/instantiating_data_contexts/instantiate_data_context)
