docs/guides/validation/validation_actions/how_to_trigger_slack_notifications_as_a_validation_action.md, before:

---
title: How to trigger Slack notifications as a Validation Action
---
import Prerequisites from '../../../guides/connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx';

This guide will help you trigger Slack notifications as a [Validation Action](../../../reference/validation.md).
It will allow you to send a Slack message including information about a Validation Result, including whether or not the Validation succeeded.

Great Expectations is able to use a slack webhook or slack app to send notifications.

### For webhook

<Prerequisites>

- Configured a Slack app with the Webhook function enabled (See Additional Resources below for more information on setting up a new Slack app).
- Obtained the Webhook address for your Slack app.
- Identified the Slack channel that messages will be sent to.

</Prerequisites>

### For slack app

<Prerequisites>

- Configure a Slack app with a Bot Token (See Additional Resources below for more information on setting up a new Slack app)
- Obtain the Bot Token for your Slack app.
- Identified the Slack channel that the messages will be sent to. 

</Prerequisites>

Steps
-----

1. Open `uncommitted/config_variables.yml` file and add `validation_notification_slack_webhook` variable by adding the following line:

```yaml
validation_notification_slack_webhook: [address to web hook]
```


2. Open `great_expectations.yml` and add `send_slack_notification_on_validation_result` action to `validation_operators`. Make sure the following section exists in the `great_expectations.yml` file.

### Webhook config
```yaml
validation_operators:
    action_list_operator:
        # To learn how to configure sending Slack notifications during evaluation
        # (and other customizations), read: https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/guides/validation/validation_actions/how_to_trigger_slack_notifications_as_a_validation_action/#webhook-config
        class_name: ActionListValidationOperator
        action_list:
        #--------------------------------
        # here is what you will be adding
        #--------------------------------
        - name: send_slack_notification_on_validation_result # name can be set to any value
          action:
            class_name: SlackNotificationAction
            # put the actual webhook URL in the uncommitted/config_variables.yml file
            slack_webhook: ${validation_notification_slack_webhook}
            notify_on: all # possible values: "all", "failure", "success"
            notify_with: # optional list containing the DataDocs sites to include in the notification. Defaults to including links to all configured sites.
            renderer:
              module_name: great_expectations.render.renderer.slack_renderer
              class_name: SlackRenderer
```

### Slack bot config
```yaml
validation_operators:
    action_list_operator:
        # To learn how to configure sending Slack notifications during evaluation
        # (and other customizations), read: https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/guides/validation/validation_actions/how_to_trigger_slack_notifications_as_a_validation_action/#slack-bot-config
        class_name: ActionListValidationOperator
        action_list:
        #--------------------------------
        # here is what you will be adding
        #--------------------------------
        - name: send_slack_notification_on_validation_result # name can be set to any value
          action:
            class_name: SlackNotificationAction
            # put the actual bot token in the uncommitted/config_variables.yml file
            slack_token: {bot_token}
            slack_channel: <channel-name>
            notify_on: all # possible values: "all", "failure", "success"
            notify_with: # optional list containing the DataDocs sites to include in the notification. Defaults to including links to all configured sites.
            renderer:
              module_name: great_expectations.render.renderer.slack_renderer
              class_name: SlackRenderer
```

3. Run your `action_list_operator`, to validate a batch of data and receive Slack notification on the success or failure of validation suite.  

```python
context.run_validation_operator('action_list_operator', assets_to_validate=batch, run_name="slack_test")
```

  If successful, you should receive a Slack message that looks like this:

![slack_notification_example](../../../images/slack_notification_example.png)


Additional notes
--------------------

- If your `great_expectations.yml` contains multiple configurations for Data Docs sites, all of them will be included in the Slack notification by default. If you would like to be more specific, you can configure the `notify_with` variable in your `great_expectations.yml`.
- The following example will configure the Slack message to include links Data Docs at `local_site` and `s3_site`.

```yaml
    # Example data_docs_sites configuration
    data_docs_sites:
      local_site:
        class_name: SiteBuilder
        show_how_to_buttons: true
        store_backend:
          class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
          base_directory: uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/
        site_index_builder:
          class_name: DefaultSiteIndexBuilder
      s3_site:  # this is a user-selected name - you may select your own
        class_name: SiteBuilder
        store_backend:
          class_name: TupleS3StoreBackend
          bucket: data-docs.my_org  # UPDATE the bucket name here to match the bucket you configured above.
        site_index_builder:
          class_name: DefaultSiteIndexBuilder
          show_cta_footer: true

    validation_operators:
        action_list_operator:
        ...
        - name: send_slack_notification_on_validation_result # name can be set to any value
              action:
                class_name: SlackNotificationAction
                # put the actual webhook URL in the uncommitted/config_variables.yml file
                slack_webhook: ${validation_notification_slack_webhook}
                notify_on: all # possible values: "all", "failure", "success"
                #--------------------------------
                # This is what was configured
                #--------------------------------
                notify_with:
                  - local_site
                  - s3_site
                renderer:
                  module_name: great_expectations.render.renderer.slack_renderer
                  class_name: SlackRenderer
```


Additional resources
--------------------

- Instructions on how to set up a Slack app with webhook can be found in the documentation for the [Slack API](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks#)

Commit message:

- Edits to bring docs up to documentation and how-to guide standards.

docs/guides/validation/validation_actions/how_to_trigger_slack_notifications_as_a_validation_action.md, after:

---
title: How to trigger Slack notifications as an Action
---
import Prerequisites from '../../../guides/connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx';
import TechnicalTag from '@site/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';

This guide will help you trigger Slack notifications as an Action.
It will allow you to send a Slack message including information about a Validation Result, including whether or not the Validation succeeded.

Great Expectations is able to use a slack webhook or slack app to send notifications.

## Prerequisites 

### For webhook

<Prerequisites>

- Configured a Slack app with the Webhook function enabled (See Additional Resources below for more information on setting up a new Slack app).
- Obtained the Webhook address for your Slack app.
- Identified the Slack channel that messages will be sent to.

</Prerequisites>

### For slack app

<Prerequisites>

- Configure a Slack app with a Bot Token (See Additional Resources below for more information on setting up a new Slack app)
- Obtain the Bot Token for your Slack app.
- Identified the Slack channel that the messages will be sent to. 

</Prerequisites>

## Steps

### 1. Edit your configuration variables to include the Slack webhook

Open `uncommitted/config_variables.yml` file and add `validation_notification_slack_webhook` variable by adding the following line:

```yaml
validation_notification_slack_webhook: [address to web hook]
```

### 2. Edit your `validation_operators` configuration to include the `send_slack_notification_on_validation_result` Action

Open `great_expectations.yml` and add `send_slack_notification_on_validation_result` Action to `validation_operators`. Make sure the following section exists in the `great_expectations.yml` file.

#### Webhook config

```yaml
validation_operators:
    action_list_operator:
        # To learn how to configure sending Slack notifications during evaluation
        # (and other customizations), read: https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/guides/validation/validation_actions/how_to_trigger_slack_notifications_as_a_validation_action/#webhook-config
        class_name: ActionListValidationOperator
        action_list:
        #--------------------------------
        # here is what you will be adding
        #--------------------------------
        - name: send_slack_notification_on_validation_result # name can be set to any value
          action:
            class_name: SlackNotificationAction
            # put the actual webhook URL in the uncommitted/config_variables.yml file
            slack_webhook: ${validation_notification_slack_webhook}
            notify_on: all # possible values: "all", "failure", "success"
            notify_with: # optional list containing the DataDocs sites to include in the notification. Defaults to including links to all configured sites.
            renderer:
              module_name: great_expectations.render.renderer.slack_renderer
              class_name: SlackRenderer
```

#### Slack bot config

```yaml
validation_operators:
    action_list_operator:
        # To learn how to configure sending Slack notifications during evaluation
        # (and other customizations), read: https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/guides/validation/validation_actions/how_to_trigger_slack_notifications_as_a_validation_action/#slack-bot-config
        class_name: ActionListValidationOperator
        action_list:
        #--------------------------------
        # here is what you will be adding
        #--------------------------------
        - name: send_slack_notification_on_validation_result # name can be set to any value
          action:
            class_name: SlackNotificationAction
            # put the actual bot token in the uncommitted/config_variables.yml file
            slack_token: {bot_token}
            slack_channel: <channel-name>
            notify_on: all # possible values: "all", "failure", "success"
            notify_with: # optional list containing the DataDocs sites to include in the notification. Defaults to including links to all configured sites.
            renderer:
              module_name: great_expectations.render.renderer.slack_renderer
              class_name: SlackRenderer
```

### 4. Test your Slack notifications

Run your `action_list_operator`, to validate a batch of data and receive Slack notification on the success or failure of validation suite.  

```python
context.run_validation_operator('action_list_operator', assets_to_validate=batch, run_name="slack_test")
```

  If successful, you should receive a Slack message that looks like this:

![slack_notification_example](../../../images/slack_notification_example.png)


Additional notes
--------------------

- If your `great_expectations.yml` contains multiple configurations for Data Docs sites, all of them will be included in the Slack notification by default. If you would like to be more specific, you can configure the `notify_with` variable in your `great_expectations.yml`.
- The following example will configure the Slack message to include links Data Docs at `local_site` and `s3_site`.

```yaml
    # Example data_docs_sites configuration
    data_docs_sites:
      local_site:
        class_name: SiteBuilder
        show_how_to_buttons: true
        store_backend:
          class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
          base_directory: uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/
        site_index_builder:
          class_name: DefaultSiteIndexBuilder
      s3_site:  # this is a user-selected name - you may select your own
        class_name: SiteBuilder
        store_backend:
          class_name: TupleS3StoreBackend
          bucket: data-docs.my_org  # UPDATE the bucket name here to match the bucket you configured above.
        site_index_builder:
          class_name: DefaultSiteIndexBuilder
          show_cta_footer: true

    validation_operators:
        action_list_operator:
        ...
        - name: send_slack_notification_on_validation_result # name can be set to any value
              action:
                class_name: SlackNotificationAction
                # put the actual webhook URL in the uncommitted/config_variables.yml file
                slack_webhook: ${validation_notification_slack_webhook}
                notify_on: all # possible values: "all", "failure", "success"
                #--------------------------------
                # This is what was configured
                #--------------------------------
                notify_with:
                  - local_site
                  - s3_site
                renderer:
                  module_name: great_expectations.render.renderer.slack_renderer
                  class_name: SlackRenderer
```


Additional resources
--------------------

- Instructions on how to set up a Slack app with webhook can be found in the documentation for the [Slack API](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks#)
