An Amazon S3 Data Doc site requires the following `store_backend` information:

- `class_name`: The name of the class to implement for accessing the target environment.  For Amazon S3 this will be `TupleS3StoreBackend`.
- `bucket`: The name of the Amazon S3 bucket that will host the Data Docs site.
- `prefix`: The path of the folder that will contain the Data Docs pages relative to the root of the Amazon S3 bucket.  The combination of `container` and `bucket` must be unique accross all Stores used by a Data Context.
- `boto3_options`: The credentials for accessing your Amazon S3 account.  Amazon S3 supports multiple methods of providing credentials, such as use of an endpoint url, access key, or role assignment.  For more information on how to configure your Amazon S3 credentials, see Amazon's documentation for how to [Configure the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html).

   The `boto3_options` dictionary can contain the following keys, depending on how you have configured your credentials in the AWS CLI:

   - `endpoint_url`: An AWS endpoint for service requests.  Using this also requires `region_name` to be included in the `boto3_options`.
   - `region_name`: The AWS region to send requests to.  This must be included in the `boto3_options` if `endpoint_url` or `assume_role_arn` are used.
   - `aws_access_key_id`: An AWS access key associated with an IAM account.  Using this also requires `aws_secret_access_key` to be provided.
   - `aws_secret_access_key`:  The secret key associated with the access key. This is required if your `boto3_options` use the `aws_access_key_id` key, and can be conscidered the "password" for the access key specified by `aws_access_key_id`.
   - `aws_session_token`: The value of the session token you retrieve directly from AWS STS operations when using temporary credentials.
   - `assume_role_arn`: The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of an IAM role with your access credentials.  Using this also requires `assume_role_duration` to be included in the `boto3_options`.
   - `assume_role_duration`: The duration of your session, measured in seconds.  This is required if your `boto3_options` use the `assume_role_arn` key. 

To define a Data Docs site configuration for S3, update `bucket`, `prefix`, and `boto3_options` in the following code and execute it:

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/configure_project_settings/configure_data_docs/_examples/data_docs_s3.py - define a Data Docs site configuration"
```
