docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_docs/how_to_host_and_share_data_docs_on_a_filesystem.md, before:

---
title: How to host and share Data Docs on a filesystem
---
import Prerequisites from '../../connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'

This guide will explain how to host and share <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="data_docs" text="Data Docs" /> on a filesystem.

<Prerequisites>

- [Set up a working deployment of Great Expectations.](../../../tutorials/getting_started/intro.md)

</Prerequisites>

Steps
-----

1. **Filesystem-hosted Data Docs are configured by default for Great Expectations deployments created using great_expectations init.**

  To create additional Data Docs sites, you may re-use the default Data Docs configuration below. You may replace ``local_site`` with your own site name, or leave the default.

    ```yaml
    data_docs_sites:
      local_site:  # this is a user-selected name - you may select your own
        class_name: SiteBuilder
        store_backend:
          class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
          base_directory: uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/ # this is the default path but can be changed as required
        site_index_builder:
          class_name: DefaultSiteIndexBuilder
    ```

2. **Test that your configuration is correct by building the site.**

    Use the following <TechnicalTag relative="../" tag="cli" text="CLI" /> command: ``great_expectations docs build --site-name local_site``. If successful, the CLI will open your newly built Data Docs site and provide the path to the index page.

    ```bash
    > great_expectations docs build --site-name local_site

    The following Data Docs sites will be built:

     - local_site: file:///great_expectations/uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/index.html

    Would you like to proceed? [Y/n]: Y

    Building Data Docs...

    Done building Data Docs
    ```

Additional notes
----------------

- To share the site, you can zip the directory specified under the ``base_directory`` key in your site configuration and distribute as desired.

Additional resources
--------------------

- [Core concepts: Data Docs](../../../reference/data_docs.md)

Commit message:

- Updated technical term link and import relative paths - Added technical term tags to all docs in /docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_contexts

docs/guides/setup/configuring_data_docs/how_to_host_and_share_data_docs_on_a_filesystem.md, after:

---
title: How to host and share Data Docs on a filesystem
---
import Prerequisites from '../../connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'
import TechnicalTag from '/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';

This guide will explain how to host and share <TechnicalTag relative="../../../" tag="data_docs" text="Data Docs" /> on a filesystem.

<Prerequisites>

- [Set up a working deployment of Great Expectations.](../../../tutorials/getting_started/intro.md)

</Prerequisites>

Steps
-----

1. **Filesystem-hosted Data Docs are configured by default for Great Expectations deployments created using great_expectations init.**

  To create additional Data Docs sites, you may re-use the default Data Docs configuration below. You may replace ``local_site`` with your own site name, or leave the default.

    ```yaml
    data_docs_sites:
      local_site:  # this is a user-selected name - you may select your own
        class_name: SiteBuilder
        store_backend:
          class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
          base_directory: uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/ # this is the default path but can be changed as required
        site_index_builder:
          class_name: DefaultSiteIndexBuilder
    ```

2. **Test that your configuration is correct by building the site.**

    Use the following <TechnicalTag relative="../../../" tag="cli" text="CLI" /> command: ``great_expectations docs build --site-name local_site``. If successful, the CLI will open your newly built Data Docs site and provide the path to the index page.

    ```bash
    > great_expectations docs build --site-name local_site

    The following Data Docs sites will be built:

     - local_site: file:///great_expectations/uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/index.html

    Would you like to proceed? [Y/n]: Y

    Building Data Docs...

    Done building Data Docs
    ```

Additional notes
----------------

- To share the site, you can zip the directory specified under the ``base_directory`` key in your site configuration and distribute as desired.

Additional resources
--------------------

- [Core concepts: Data Docs](../../../reference/data_docs.md)
