---
title: Choose result format
---
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import GxData from '../../_core_components/_data.jsx';

import PrereqPython from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_python_installation.md'
import PrereqGx from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_gx_installation.md'
import PrereqDataContext from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_preconfigured_data_context.md'
import PrereqValidationDefinition from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_validation_definition.md'

import BasicResultFormat from './_BASIC.md';
import BooleanOnlyResultFormat from './_BOOLEAN_ONLY.md';
import CompleteResultFormat from './_COMPLETE.md';
import SummaryResultFormat from './_SUMMARY.md';

import ResultFormatKeyReferenceTable from './_optional_key_reference_table.md';
import ResultOutputReferenceTable from './_result_output_reference_table.md';
import ResultVerbosityReferenceTable from './_result_verbosity_reference_table.md';

import AdditionalSettingsBasic from './_additional_settings/_BASIC.md';
import AdditionalSettingsSummary from './_additional_settings/_SUMMARY.md';
import AdditionalSettingsComplete from './_additional_settings/_COMPLETE.md';


When you validate data with GX Core you can set the level of detail returned in your Validation Results by specifying a value for the optional `result_format` parameter.  These settings will be applied to the results returned by each validated Expectation.

Typical use cases customizing Result Format settings include summarizing values that cause Expectations to fail durring data exploration, retrieving failed rows to facilitate cleaning data, or excluding excess Validation Result data in published Data Docs.

## Define a Result Format configuration

The `result_format` parameter takes in a dictionary of configuration settings.

1. Create a dictionary and set the verbosity of returned Validation Results.

   The verbosity of your Validation Results can be set as the value of the key `"result_format"` in your Result Format dictionary.  In order from least verbosity to greatest detail, the valid values for the `"result_format"` key are: 

   - `"BOOLEAN_ONLY"`
   - `"BASIC"`
   - `"SUMMARY"`
   - `"COMPLETE"`.

   The default verbosity level of Validation Results generated by Expectations is `"SUMMARY"`.

   Select a value below to see example code for that Result Format and what information is returned at that level of verbosity:

   <Tabs queryString="result_format_string" groupId="result_format_string" defaultValue='basic'>

   <TabItem value="boolean" label='"BOOLEAN_ONLY"'>
      <BooleanOnlyResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>
   
   <TabItem value="basic" label='"BASIC"'>
      <BasicResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="summary" label='"SUMMARY"'>
      <SummaryResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="complete" label='"COMPLETE"'>
      <CompleteResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

2. Optional. Specify configurations for additional settings available to the base `result_format`.

   Once you have defined the base configuration in your `result_format` key, you can further tailor the format of your Validation Results by defining additional key/value pairs in your Result Format dictionary.

   Reference the table below for valid keys and how they influence the format of generated Validation Results:

   <Tabs queryString="result_format_string" groupId="result_format_string" defaultValue='basic'>

   <TabItem value="boolean" label='"BOOLEAN_ONLY"'>
      A '"BOOLEAN_ONLY"' result format does not support additional settings.
   </TabItem>
   
   <TabItem value="basic" label='"BASIC"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsBasic/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="summary" label='"SUMMARY"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsSummary/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="complete" label='"COMPLETE"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsComplete/>
   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

3. Apply the Result Format to a Checkpoint or Validation Definition.

   You can define a persisting Result Format configuration by passing it in as the `result_format` parameter when a Checkpoint is created.  The Result Format will be applied every time the Checkpoint is run.  For more information on creating a Checkpoint see [Create a Checkpoint with Actions](/core/trigger_actions_based_on_results/create_a_checkpoint_with_actions.md).

   You can also pass a `result_format` configuration in to a Validation Definition's `.run(...)` method to apply the Result Format configuration to the Validation Results that are returned.  This `result_format` configuration does not persist with the Validation Definition and will only apply to the current execution of the `.run(...)` method.  For more information on running a Validation Definition outside of a Checkpoint see [Run a Validation Definition](/core/run_validations/run_a_validation_definition.md).

## Validation Results reference tables

<Tabs queryString="results" groupId="results" defaultValue='fields'>

   <TabItem value="fields" label="Information in result fields">
      <ResultOutputReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="verbosity" label="Result fields provided by verbosity level">
      <ResultVerbosityReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="result_format_keys" label="Result Format keys">
      <ResultFormatKeyReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

</Tabs>