docs/docusaurus/docs/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_in_emr_serverless.md, before:

---
title: Use Great Expectations with EMR Serverless
description: "Use Great Expectations with Amazon EMR Serverless"
sidebar_label: "Amazon EMR Serverless"
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/integrations/emr_serverless_icon.png' }
---

EMR Serverless is a deployment option for Amazon EMR that provides a serverless runtime environment.  It simplifies the operation of analytics applications using the latest open source frameworks, such as Apache Hive or Apache Spark.  EMR Serverless removes the need to configure, secure, optimize, and operate clusters for running applications with supported frameworks.

:::info 

To use Great Expectations (GX) with Amazon EMR Serverless, see [How to use Great Expectations in EMR Serverless](/docs/0.15.50/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_in_emr_serverless) in version 0.15.50 of the documentation.

For more information about implementing and using Amazon EMR Serverless, see the [Amazon EMR documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/emr/latest/EMR-Serverless-UserGuide/emr-serverless.html).

:::

Commit message:

add back the "most recent version of GX supported by this guide is..." note

docs/docusaurus/docs/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_in_emr_serverless.md, after:

---
title: Use Great Expectations with EMR Serverless
description: "Use Great Expectations with Amazon EMR Serverless"
sidebar_label: "Amazon EMR Serverless"
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/integrations/emr_serverless_icon.png' }
---

EMR Serverless is a deployment option for Amazon EMR that provides a serverless runtime environment.  It simplifies the operation of analytics applications using the latest open source frameworks, such as Apache Hive or Apache Spark.  EMR Serverless removes the need to configure, secure, optimize, and operate clusters for running applications with supported frameworks.

:::info 

The most recent version of GX supported by this guide is GX 0.15.50.

To use Great Expectations (GX) with Amazon EMR Serverless, see [How to use Great Expectations in EMR Serverless](/docs/0.15.50/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_in_emr_serverless) in version 0.15.50 of the documentation.

For more information about implementing and using Amazon EMR Serverless, see the [Amazon EMR documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/emr/latest/EMR-Serverless-UserGuide/emr-serverless.html).

:::
