docs/docusaurus/docs/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_with_meltano.md, before:

---
title: Use Great Expectations with Meltano
description: "Use Great Expectations with Meltano"
sidebar_label: "Meltano"
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/integrations/meltano_icon.png' }
---

Meltano is an Open Source DataOps OS that's used to install and configure data applications (Great Expectations, Singer, dbt, Airflow, etc.) that your team's data platform is built on top of, all in one central repository.

Using Meltano enables teams to easily implement DataOps best practices like configuration as code, code reviews, isolated test environments, CI/CD, etc.  A common use case is to manage ELT pipelines with Meltano and as part of ensuring the quality of the data in those pipelines, teams bring in Great Expectations.

:::info 

To use GX with Meltano, see [How to use GX with Meltano](/docs/0.15.50/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_with_meltano) in version 0.15.50 of the documentation.

For more information about implementing and using Meltano, see the [Meltano site](https://meltano.com/).

:::

Commit message:

add back the "most recent version of GX supported by this guide is..." note

docs/docusaurus/docs/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_with_meltano.md, after:

---
title: Use Great Expectations with Meltano
description: "Use Great Expectations with Meltano"
sidebar_label: "Meltano"
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/integrations/meltano_icon.png' }
---

Meltano is an Open Source DataOps OS that's used to install and configure data applications (Great Expectations, Singer, dbt, Airflow, etc.) that your team's data platform is built on top of, all in one central repository.

Using Meltano enables teams to easily implement DataOps best practices like configuration as code, code reviews, isolated test environments, CI/CD, etc.  A common use case is to manage ELT pipelines with Meltano and as part of ensuring the quality of the data in those pipelines, teams bring in Great Expectations.

:::info 

The most recent version of GX supported by this guide is GX 0.15.50.

To use GX with Meltano, see [How to use GX with Meltano](/docs/0.15.50/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_with_meltano) in version 0.15.50 of the documentation.

For more information about implementing and using Meltano, see the [Meltano site](https://meltano.com/).

:::
