docs/docusaurus/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/database/how_to_connect_to_sql_data_using_a_query.md, before:

---
title: How to connect to SQL data using a query
tag: [how-to, connect to data]
description: A technical guide demonstrating how to connect Great Expectations to the data returned by a SQL query.
keywords: [Great Expectations, SQL]
---

<!-- Import statements start here. -->
import Prerequisites from '/docs/components/_prerequisites.jsx'

<!-- ### Import GX and instantiate a Data Context -->
import ImportGxAndInstantiateADataContext from '/docs/components/setup/data_context/_import_gx_and_instantiate_a_data_context.md'

import SetupAndInstallForSqlData from '/docs/components/setup/link_lists/_setup_and_install_for_sql_data.md'
import ConnectingToSqlDatasourcesFluently from '/docs/components/connect_to_data/link_lists/_connecting_to_sql_datasources_fluently.md'

In this guide we will demonstrate how to connect Great Expectations to the data returned by a query in a generic SQL database.  GX uses SQLAlchemy to connect to SQL data, and therefore supports most SQL dialects that SQLAlchemy does.  For more information on the SQL dialects supported by SQLAlchemy, see [Dialects](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/dialects/index.html).

To connect to the contents of a SQL table instead of the results of a SQL query, see [our guide on how to connect to a SQL table](/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/database/how_to_connect_to_a_sql_table), instead.

## Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {false} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

- An installation of GX set up to work with SQL. See [How to set up GX to work with SQL databases](/docs/guides/setup/optional_dependencies/sql_databases/how_to_setup_gx_to_work_with_sql_databases).
- Source data stored in a SQL database.

</Prerequisites> 

### If you still need to connect a Datasource to a SQL database

<summary></summary>

Please reference the appropriate one of these guides:

<ConnectingToSqlDatasourcesFluently />

<details></details>

:::caution Datasources defined with the block-config method

If you're using a Datasource that was created with the advanced block-config method, see [How to configure a SQL Datasource with the block-config method](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_sql_datasource), instead.

:::

## Steps

### 1. Import GX and instantiate a Data Context

<ImportGxAndInstantiateADataContext />

### 2. Retrieve a SQL Datasource

For this guide, we will use a previously defined Datasource named `"my_datasource"`.  For purposes of our demonstration, this Datasource was configured to connect to a SQL database.

To retrieve this Datasource, we will supply the `get_datasource(...)` method of our Data Context with the name of the Datasource we wish to retrieve:

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_connect_to_sql_data_using_a_query.py datasource"
```

### 3. Add a query to the Datasource as a Data Asset

To indicate the query that provides the data to connect to we will define a Data Asset.  This is done by providing the `add_query_asset(...)` method a `name` by which we will reference the Data Asset in the future and a `query` which will provide the data we wish the Data Asset to connect to.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_connect_to_sql_data_using_a_query.py add_query_asset"
```

### 4. (Optional) Repeat step 3 as needed to add additional queries

If you wish to connect to the contents of additional queries in the same SQL Database, simply repeat the steps above to add them as query Data Assets.

## Next steps

Now that you have connected to the data returned by a SQL query, you may want to look into:

### Configuring SQL Data Assets further
- [How to organize Batches in a SQL based Data Asset](/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/data_assets/how_to_organize_batches_in_a_sql_based_data_asset)

### Requesting Data from a Data Asset
- [How to request data from a Data Asset](/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/batch_requests/how_to_request_data_from_a_data_asset)

### Using Data Assets to create Expectations
- [Use a Data Asset to create Expectations while interactively evaluating a set of data](/docs/guides/expectations/how_to_create_and_edit_expectations_with_instant_feedback_from_a_sample_batch_of_data)
- [Use the Onboarding Data Assistant to evaluate one or more Batches of data and create Expectations](/docs/guides/expectations/data_assistants/how_to_create_an_expectation_suite_with_the_onboarding_data_assistant)

Commit message:

Updated Datasource to Data Source.

docs/docusaurus/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/database/how_to_connect_to_sql_data_using_a_query.md, after:

---
title: How to connect to SQL data using a query
tag: [how-to, connect to data]
description: A technical guide demonstrating how to connect Great Expectations to the data returned by a SQL query.
keywords: [Great Expectations, SQL]
---

<!-- Import statements start here. -->
import Prerequisites from '/docs/components/_prerequisites.jsx'

<!-- ### Import GX and instantiate a Data Context -->
import ImportGxAndInstantiateADataContext from '/docs/components/setup/data_context/_import_gx_and_instantiate_a_data_context.md'

import SetupAndInstallForSqlData from '/docs/components/setup/link_lists/_setup_and_install_for_sql_data.md'
import ConnectingToSqlDatasourcesFluently from '/docs/components/connect_to_data/link_lists/_connecting_to_sql_datasources_fluently.md'

In this guide we will demonstrate how to connect Great Expectations to the data returned by a query in a generic SQL database.  GX uses SQLAlchemy to connect to SQL data, and therefore supports most SQL dialects that SQLAlchemy does.  For more information on the SQL dialects supported by SQLAlchemy, see [Dialects](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/dialects/index.html).

To connect to the contents of a SQL table instead of the results of a SQL query, see [our guide on how to connect to a SQL table](/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/database/how_to_connect_to_a_sql_table), instead.

## Prerequisites

<Prerequisites requirePython = {false} requireInstallation = {false} requireDataContext = {false} requireSourceData = {null} requireDatasource = {false} requireExpectationSuite = {false}>

- An installation of GX set up to work with SQL. See [How to set up GX to work with SQL databases](/docs/guides/setup/optional_dependencies/sql_databases/how_to_setup_gx_to_work_with_sql_databases).
- Source data stored in a SQL database.

</Prerequisites> 

### If you still need to connect a Data Source to a SQL database

<summary></summary>

Please reference the appropriate one of these guides:

<ConnectingToSqlDatasourcesFluently />

<details></details>

:::caution Datasources defined with the block-config method

If you're using a Data Source that was created with the advanced block-config method, see [How to configure a SQL Data Source with the block-config method](/docs/0.15.50/guides/connecting_to_your_data/datasource_configuration/how_to_configure_a_sql_datasource), instead.

:::

## Steps

### 1. Import GX and instantiate a Data Context

<ImportGxAndInstantiateADataContext />

### 2. Retrieve a SQL Data Source

For this guide, we will use a previously defined Data Source named `"my_datasource"`.  For purposes of our demonstration, this Data Source was configured to connect to a SQL database.

To retrieve this Data Source, we will supply the `get_datasource(...)` method of our Data Context with the name of the Data Source we wish to retrieve:

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_connect_to_sql_data_using_a_query.py datasource"
```

### 3. Add a query to the Data Source as a Data Asset

To indicate the query that provides the data to connect to we will define a Data Asset.  This is done by providing the `add_query_asset(...)` method a `name` by which we will reference the Data Asset in the future and a `query` which will provide the data we wish the Data Asset to connect to.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/fluent_datasources/how_to_connect_to_sql_data_using_a_query.py add_query_asset"
```

### 4. (Optional) Repeat step 3 as needed to add additional queries

If you wish to connect to the contents of additional queries in the same SQL Database, simply repeat the steps above to add them as query Data Assets.

## Next steps

Now that you have connected to the data returned by a SQL query, you may want to look into:

### Configuring SQL Data Assets further
- [How to organize Batches in a SQL based Data Asset](/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/data_assets/how_to_organize_batches_in_a_sql_based_data_asset)

### Requesting Data from a Data Asset
- [How to request data from a Data Asset](/docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/fluent/batch_requests/how_to_request_data_from_a_data_asset)

### Using Data Assets to create Expectations
- [Use a Data Asset to create Expectations while interactively evaluating a set of data](/docs/guides/expectations/how_to_create_and_edit_expectations_with_instant_feedback_from_a_sample_batch_of_data)
- [Use the Onboarding Data Assistant to evaluate one or more Batches of data and create Expectations](/docs/guides/expectations/data_assistants/how_to_create_an_expectation_suite_with_the_onboarding_data_assistant)
