docs/guides/validation/advanced/how_to_validate_data_without_a_checkpoint.md, before:

---
title: How to Validate data without a Checkpoint
---
import TechnicalTag from '@site/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';

:::caution ATTENTION
As part of the new modular expectations API in Great Expectations, Validation Operators have evolved into Class-Based <TechnicalTag tag="checkpoint" text="Checkpoints" />. This means running a Validation without a Checkpoint is no longer supported in Great Expectations version 0.13.8 or later. Please read [Checkpoints and Actions](../../../reference/checkpoints_and_actions.md) to learn more.
:::

This guide originally demonstrated how to load an <TechnicalTag tag="expectation_suite" text="Expectation Suite" /> and <TechnicalTag tag="validate" text="Validate" /> data without using a <TechnicalTag tag="checkpoint" text="Checkpoint" />. As that process might have been suitable for environments or workflows where a user does not want to or cannot create a Checkpoint, e.g. in a [hosted environment](../../../deployment_patterns/how_to_instantiate_a_data_context_hosted_environments.md).  However, this workflow is no longer supported as of Great Expectations version 0.13.8 or later.

Instead, the recommended workflow is to use an in-memory instance of a Checkpoint loaded from a YAML configuration or Python dictionary that is also defined in-memory.  Documentation for this process is forthcoming.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Docs/doc 212/how to validate data with an in memory checkpoint (#4820)
* - Update sidebars with new how-to guide
- Initial outline for new how-to guide

* -Initial outline for how-to doc.

* - Update how-to guide content
- Update old documentation to point to new how-to guide.

* - Added example scripts with asserts for testing for use as referenced files in documentation.
- Added example scripts to test_script_runner.py

* -updated line numbers for script references

* - formatted sample scripts with black
- updated line numbers in document

* -corrections to python version of the config reference script

* -correction to line reference

* -correction to python configuration of Checkpoint

* -correction to name values in test_script_runner.py

* -ran linting; updated line number references for code

* -update sitemap.xml

* Added urls for where the sample files should be after they are merged into develop.

docs/guides/validation/advanced/how_to_validate_data_without_a_checkpoint.md, after:

---
title: How to Validate data without a Checkpoint
---
import Prerequisites from '../../../guides/connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx';

:::caution ATTENTION
As part of the new modular expectations API in Great Expectations, Validation Operators have evolved into Class-Based Checkpoints. This means running a Validation without a Checkpoint is no longer supported in Great Expectations version 0.13.8 or later.   For more context, please read our [documentation on Checkpoints](../../../terms/checkpoint.md) and our [documentation on Actions](../../../terms/action.md).

This guide originally demonstrated how to load an Expectation Suite and Validate data without using a Checkpoint. That used to be suitable for environments or workflows where a user does not want to or cannot create a Checkpoint, e.g. in a [hosted environment](../../../deployment_patterns/how_to_instantiate_a_data_context_hosted_environments.md). However, this workflow is no longer supported. 

As an alternative, you can instead run Validations by using a Checkpoint that is configured and initialized entierly in-memory, as demonstrated in our guide on [How to validate data with an in-memory Checkpoint](./how_to_validate_data_with_an_in_memory_checkpoint.md).
:::
