docs/docusaurus/docs/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_gx_with_aws/components/_add_table_and_query_assets.mdx, before:

Now that our Datasource has been created, we will use it to connect to a specific set of data in the database it is configured for.  This is done by defining a Data Asset in the Datasource.  A Datasource may contain multiple Data Assets, each of which will serve as the interface between GX and the specific set of data it has been configured for.

With SQL databases, there are two types of Data Assets that can be used.  The first is a Table Data Asset, which connects GX to the data contained in a single table in the source database.  The other is a Query Data Asset, which connects GX to the data returned by a SQL query.  We will demonstrate how to create both of these in the following steps.

:::tip How many Data Assets can my Datasource contain?

Although there is no set maximum number of Data Assets you can define for a datasource, there is a functional minimum.  In order for GX to retrieve data from your Datasource you will need to create *at least one* Data Asset.

:::

We will indicate a table to connect to with a Table Data Asset.  This is done by providing the `add_table_asset(...)` method a `name` by which we will reference the Data Asset in the future and a `table_name` to specify the table we wish the Data Asset to connect to.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/deployment_patterns/aws_redshift_deployment_patterns.py table_asset"
```

To indicate the query that provides data to connect to we will define a Query Data Asset.  This done by providing the `add_query_asset(...)` method a `name` by which we will reference the Data Asset in the future and a `query` which will provide the data we wish the Data Asset to connect to.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/deployment_patterns/aws_redshift_deployment_patterns.py query_asset"
```

Commit message:

[DOCS] Source Data and Datasource Format Update (#8435)
Co-authored-by: William Shin <will@greatexpectations.io>

docs/docusaurus/docs/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_gx_with_aws/components/_add_table_and_query_assets.mdx, after:

Now that our Data Source has been created, we will use it to connect to a specific set of data in the database it is configured for.  This is done by defining a Data Asset in the Data Source.  A Data Source may contain multiple Data Assets, each of which will serve as the interface between GX and the specific set of data it has been configured for.

With SQL databases, there are two types of Data Assets that can be used.  The first is a Table Data Asset, which connects GX to the data contained in a single table in the source database.  The other is a Query Data Asset, which connects GX to the data returned by a SQL query.  We will demonstrate how to create both of these in the following steps.

:::tip How many Data Assets can my Data Source contain?

Although there is no set maximum number of Data Assets you can define for a datasource, there is a functional minimum.  In order for GX to retrieve data from your Data Source you will need to create *at least one* Data Asset.

:::

We will indicate a table to connect to with a Table Data Asset.  This is done by providing the `add_table_asset(...)` method a `name` by which we will reference the Data Asset in the future and a `table_name` to specify the table we wish the Data Asset to connect to.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/deployment_patterns/aws_redshift_deployment_patterns.py table_asset"
```

To indicate the query that provides data to connect to we will define a Query Data Asset.  This done by providing the `add_query_asset(...)` method a `name` by which we will reference the Data Asset in the future and a `query` which will provide the data we wish the Data Asset to connect to.

```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/deployment_patterns/aws_redshift_deployment_patterns.py query_asset"
```
