docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/advanced/how_to_configure_a_dataconnector_for_splitting_and_sampling_a_file_system_or_blob_store.md, before:

---
title: How to configure a DataConnector for splitting and sampling a file system or blob store
---
import Prerequisites from '../../connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'

This guide will help you configure `Splitting` and `Sampling` for any files type data store (e.g., filesystem, cloud
blob storage) using a `Configured Asset Data Connector` (the same `Splitting` and `Sampling` configuration options can
be readily applied to an `Inferred Asset Data Connector`).

The `Splitting` and `Sampling` mechanisms provided by Great Expectations serve as additional tools for `Partitioning`
your data at various levels of granularity:
- `Splitting` provides the means of focusing the batch data on the values of certain dimensions of the data of interest.
- `Sampling` provides a means for reducing the amount of data in the retrieved batch to facilitate data analysis.

<Prerequisites>

- [Configured and loaded a Data Context](../../../tutorials/getting_started/initialize_a_data_context.md)
- [Configured a Datasource and Data Connector](../../../reference/datasources.md)
- Reviewed [How to configure a DataConnector to introspect and partition a file system or blob store](../how_to_configure_a_dataconnector_to_introspect_and_partition_a_file_system_or_blob_store.md)

</Prerequisites>

This guide will use the `Data Connector` named `configured_data_connector_name` that is part of the following
`Datasource` configuration as an example:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L10-L48
```

## Preliminary Steps

### 1. Instantiate your project's DataContext

Import these necessary packages and modules.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L1-L6
```

Load your `DataContext` into memory using the `get_context()` method.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L8
```

### 2. Configure your Datasource

Using the above example configuration, add in the path to a directory that contains your data.  Then run this code to
test your configuration:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L56
```

Given that the `glob_directive` in the example configuration is `*.csv`, if you specified a directory containing CSV
files, then you will see them listed as `Available data_asset_names` in the output of `test_yaml_config()`.

Feel free to adjust your configuration and re-run `test_yaml_config()` as needed.

### 3. Save the Datasource configuration to your DataContext

Save the configuration into your `DataContext` by using the `add_datasource()` function.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L58
```

## Splitting and Sampling

To configure `Splitting`, specify a dimension (i.e., `column_name` or `column_names`), the method of `Splitting`, and
parameters to be used by the specified `Splitting` method.

To configure `Sampling`, specify the method of `Sampling` and parameters to be used by the specified `Sampling` method.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L158-L186
```

:::info
Currently, the configuration of `Splitting` and `Sampling` as part of the `YAML` configuration is not supported; it must
be done using `batch_spec_passthrough` as illustrated above.
:::

To customize the configuration for the present example, first, specify the `data_connector_query` to select the `Batch`
at the `Partitioning` level of granularity.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L191-L194
```

Next, specify `Splitting` and `Sampling` directives.

For the present example, we can split according to the "passenger_count" column with the focus on two-passenger rides:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L195-L199
```

We can then obtain a random `10%` of the rows in the batch:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L200-L201
```

Finally, confirm the expected number of batches was retrieved and the reduced size of a batch (due to `Sampling`):

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L203-L205
```

## Additional Notes

Available `Splitting` methods and their configuration parameters:

    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | **Method**                      	| **Parameters**                                                                                                                        | **Returned Batch Data**                                                                                                                                                                   |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_whole_table             | N/A                                                                                                                                   | identical to original                                                                                                                                                                    	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_column_value            | column_name='col', batch_identifiers={ 'col': value }                                                                                 | rows where value of column_name are equal to value specified                                                                                                                             	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_converted_datetime      | column_name='col', date_format_string=<'%Y-%m-%d'>, batch_identifiers={ 'col': matching_string }                                      | rows where value of column_name converted to datetime using the given date_format_string are equal to matching string provided for the column_name specified                             	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_divided_integer         | column_name='col', divisor=<int>, batch_identifiers={ 'col': matching_divisor }                                                       | rows where value of column_name divided (using integral division) by the given divisor are equal to matching_divisor provided for the column_name specified                              	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_mod_integer             | column_name='col', mod=<int>, batch_identifiers={ 'col': matching_mod_value }                                                         | rows where value of column_name divided (using modular division) by the given mod are equal to matching_mod_value provided for the column_name specified                                 	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_multi_column_values     | column_names='<list[col]>', batch_identifiers={ 'col_0': value_0, 'col_1': value_1, 'col_2': value_2, ... }                           | rows where values of column_names are equal to values corresponding to each column name as specified                                                                                     	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_hashed_column           | column_name='col', hash_digits=<int>, hash_function_name=<'md5'> batch_identifiers={ 'hash_value': value }                            | rows where value of column_name hashed (using specified has_function_name) and retaining the stated number of hash_digits are equal to hash_value provided for the column_name specified 	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+


Available `Sampling` methods and their configuration parameters:

    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | **Method**                      	| **Parameters**                                                                                                                        | **Returned Batch Data**                                                                                                                                                                   |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_random              | p=fraction                                                                                                                            | rows selected at random, whose number amounts to selected fraction of total number of rows in batch                                                                                       |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_mod                 | column_name='col', mod=<int>                                                                                                          | take the mod of named column, and only keep rows that match the given value                                                                                                               |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_a_list              | column_name='col', value_list=<list[val]>                                                                                             | match the values in the named column against value_list, and only keep the matches                                                                                                        |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_hash                | column_name='col', hash_digits=<int>, hash_value=<str>, hash_function_name=<'md5'>                                                    | hash the values in the named column (using specified has_function_name), and only keep rows that match the given hash_value                                                               |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+


To view the full script used in this page, see it on GitHub:

- [yaml_example_complete.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py)

Commit message:

- Adds technical tags to all documents in the Connect to data: Advanced section of the docs. (#4406)

docs/guides/connecting_to_your_data/advanced/how_to_configure_a_dataconnector_for_splitting_and_sampling_a_file_system_or_blob_store.md, after:

---
title: How to configure a DataConnector for splitting and sampling a file system or blob store
---
import Prerequisites from '../../connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'
import TechnicalTag from '@site/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';

This guide will help you configure `Splitting` and `Sampling` for any files type data store (e.g., filesystem, cloud
blob storage) using a `Configured Asset Data Connector` (the same `Splitting` and `Sampling` configuration options can
be readily applied to an `Inferred Asset Data Connector`).

The `Splitting` and `Sampling` mechanisms provided by Great Expectations serve as additional tools for `Partitioning`
your data at various levels of granularity:
- `Splitting` provides the means of focusing the <TechnicalTag tag="batch" text="Batch" /> data on the values of certain dimensions of the data of interest.
- `Sampling` provides a means for reducing the amount of data in the retrieved batch to facilitate data analysis.

<Prerequisites>

- [Configured and loaded a Data Context](../../../tutorials/getting_started/initialize_a_data_context.md)
- [Configured a Datasource and Data Connector](../../../reference/datasources.md)
- Reviewed [How to configure a DataConnector to introspect and partition a file system or blob store](../how_to_configure_a_dataconnector_to_introspect_and_partition_a_file_system_or_blob_store.md)

</Prerequisites>

This guide will use the <TechnicalTag tag="data_connector" text="Data Connector" /> named `configured_data_connector_name` that is part of the following
`Datasource` configuration as an example:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L10-L48
```

## Preliminary Steps

### 1. Instantiate your project's DataContext

Import these necessary packages and modules.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L1-L6
```

Load your `DataContext` into memory using the `get_context()` method.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L8
```

### 2. Configure your Datasource

Using the above example configuration, add in the path to a directory that contains your data.  Then run this code to
test your configuration:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L56
```

Given that the `glob_directive` in the example configuration is `*.csv`, if you specified a directory containing CSV
files, then you will see them listed as `Available data_asset_names` in the output of `test_yaml_config()`.

Feel free to adjust your configuration and re-run `test_yaml_config()` as needed.

### 3. Save the Datasource configuration to your DataContext

Save the configuration into your `DataContext` by using the `add_datasource()` function.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L58
```

## Splitting and Sampling

To configure `Splitting`, specify a dimension (i.e., `column_name` or `column_names`), the method of `Splitting`, and
parameters to be used by the specified `Splitting` method.

To configure `Sampling`, specify the method of `Sampling` and parameters to be used by the specified `Sampling` method.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L158-L186
```

:::info
Currently, the configuration of `Splitting` and `Sampling` as part of the `YAML` configuration is not supported; it must
be done using `batch_spec_passthrough` as illustrated above.
:::

To customize the configuration for the present example, first, specify the `data_connector_query` to select the `Batch`
at the `Partitioning` level of granularity.

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L191-L194
```

Next, specify `Splitting` and `Sampling` directives.

For the present example, we can split according to the "passenger_count" column with the focus on two-passenger rides:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L195-L199
```

We can then obtain a random `10%` of the rows in the batch:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L200-L201
```

Finally, confirm the expected number of batches was retrieved and the reduced size of a batch (due to `Sampling`):

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py#L203-L205
```

## Additional Notes

Available `Splitting` methods and their configuration parameters:

    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | **Method**                      	| **Parameters**                                                                                                                        | **Returned Batch Data**                                                                                                                                                                   |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_whole_table             | N/A                                                                                                                                   | identical to original                                                                                                                                                                    	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_column_value            | column_name='col', batch_identifiers={ 'col': value }                                                                                 | rows where value of column_name are equal to value specified                                                                                                                             	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_converted_datetime      | column_name='col', date_format_string=<'%Y-%m-%d'>, batch_identifiers={ 'col': matching_string }                                      | rows where value of column_name converted to datetime using the given date_format_string are equal to matching string provided for the column_name specified                             	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_divided_integer         | column_name='col', divisor=<int>, batch_identifiers={ 'col': matching_divisor }                                                       | rows where value of column_name divided (using integral division) by the given divisor are equal to matching_divisor provided for the column_name specified                              	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_mod_integer             | column_name='col', mod=<int>, batch_identifiers={ 'col': matching_mod_value }                                                         | rows where value of column_name divided (using modular division) by the given mod are equal to matching_mod_value provided for the column_name specified                                 	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_multi_column_values     | column_names='<list[col]>', batch_identifiers={ 'col_0': value_0, 'col_1': value_1, 'col_2': value_2, ... }                           | rows where values of column_names are equal to values corresponding to each column name as specified                                                                                     	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _split_on_hashed_column           | column_name='col', hash_digits=<int>, hash_function_name=<'md5'> batch_identifiers={ 'hash_value': value }                            | rows where value of column_name hashed (using specified has_function_name) and retaining the stated number of hash_digits are equal to hash_value provided for the column_name specified 	|
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+


Available `Sampling` methods and their configuration parameters:

    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | **Method**                      	| **Parameters**                                                                                                                        | **Returned Batch Data**                                                                                                                                                                   |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_random              | p=fraction                                                                                                                            | rows selected at random, whose number amounts to selected fraction of total number of rows in batch                                                                                       |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_mod                 | column_name='col', mod=<int>                                                                                                          | take the mod of named column, and only keep rows that match the given value                                                                                                               |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_a_list              | column_name='col', value_list=<list[val]>                                                                                             | match the values in the named column against value_list, and only keep the matches                                                                                                        |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+
    | _sample_using_hash                | column_name='col', hash_digits=<int>, hash_value=<str>, hash_function_name=<'md5'>                                                    | hash the values in the named column (using specified has_function_name), and only keep rows that match the given hash_value                                                               |
    +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	+


To view the full script used in this page, see it on GitHub:

- [yaml_example_complete.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/tests/integration/docusaurus/connecting_to_your_data/how_to_introspect_and_partition_your_data/files/yaml_example_complete.py)
