docs/contributing/index.md, before:

---
title: "Contributing: Index"
---
## Basics
- [Introduction](../contributing/contributing.md)
- [Setting up your Dev Environment](../contributing/contributing_setup.md)
- [Contribution Checklist](../contributing/contributing_checklist.md)
- [Contributing through GitHub](../contributing/contributing_github.md)
- [Contribution and Testing](../contributing/contributing_test.md)
- [Levels  of Maturity](../contributing/contributing_maturity.md)
- [Contributing Misc and CLA](../contributing/contributing_misc.md)

## Expectations
- [How to contribute a Custom Expectation to Great Expectations](../guides/expectations/contributing/how_to_contribute_a_custom_expectation_to_great_expectations.md)

## Style guides
- [Documentation style guide](../contributing/style_guides/docs_style.md)
- [Code style guide](../contributing/style_guides/code_style.md)
- [CLI and Notebook style guide](../contributing/style_guides/cli_and_notebooks_style.md)
- [How to write a how-to-guide](../guides/miscellaneous/how_to_write_a_how_to_guide.md)
- [TEMPLATE How to guide {stub}](../guides/miscellaneous/how_to_template.md)

Commit message:

Updated index pages to reflect changes to ToC

docs/contributing/index.md, after:

---
title: "Contributing: Index"
---

## Contributing basics
- [Introduction](../contributing/contributing.md)
- [Setting up your Dev Environment](../contributing/contributing_setup.md)
- [Contribution Checklist](../contributing/contributing_checklist.md)
- [Contributing through GitHub](../contributing/contributing_github.md)
- [Contribution and Testing](../contributing/contributing_test.md)
- [Levels  of Maturity](../contributing/contributing_maturity.md)
- [Contributing Misc and CLA](../contributing/contributing_misc.md)
- [Contributing a Package](../contributing/contributing_package.md)

## Contributing specifics

### How to contribute how-to guides
- [How to write a how-to-guide](../guides/miscellaneous/how_to_write_a_how_to_guide.md)
- [TEMPLATE How to guide {stub}](../guides/miscellaneous/how_to_template.md)
- [How to contribute a Custom Expectation to Great Expectations](../guides/expectations/contributing/how_to_contribute_a_custom_expectation_to_great_expectations.md)

## Style guides
- [Documentation style guide](../contributing/style_guides/docs_style.md)
- [Code style guide](../contributing/style_guides/code_style.md)
- [CLI and Notebook style guide](../contributing/style_guides/cli_and_notebooks_style.md)
- ["Contributing: Index"](../contributing/index.md)
