docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_a_validation_result_store_to_postgresql.md, before:

---
title: How to configure a Validation Result Store to PostgreSQL
---
import Prerequisites from '../../connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'

By default, Validation Results are stored in JSON format in the ``uncommitted/validations/`` subdirectory of your ``great_expectations/`` folder.  Since Validation Results may include examples of data (which could be sensitive or regulated) they should not be committed to a source control system.  This guide will help you configure Great Expectations to store them in a PostgreSQL database.

<Prerequisites>

- [Configured a Data Context](../../../tutorials/getting_started/initialize_a_data_context.md).
- [Configured an Expectations Suite](../../../tutorials/getting_started/create_your_first_expectations.md).
- [Configured a Checkpoint](../../../tutorials/getting_started/validate_your_data.md).
- [Configured a PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database with appropriate credentials.

</Prerequisites>

## Steps

### 1. Configure the ``config_variables.yml`` file with your database credentials

We recommend that database credentials be stored in the ``config_variables.yml`` file, which is located in the ``uncommitted/`` folder by default, and is not part of source control. The following lines add database credentials under the key ``db_creds``. Additional options for configuring the ``config_variables.yml`` file or additional environment variables can be found [here](../configuring_data_contexts/how_to_configure_credentials.md).

```yaml
db_creds:
  drivername: postgres
  host: '<your_host_name>'
  port: '<your_port>'
  username: '<your_username>'
  password: '<your_password>'
  database: '<your_database_name>'
```

It is also possible to specify `schema` as an additional keyword argument if you would like to use a specific schema as the backend, but this is entirely optional.

```yaml
db_creds:
  drivername: postgres
  host: '<your_host_name>'
  port: '<your_port>'
  username: '<your_username>'
  password: '<your_password>'
  database: '<your_database_name>'
  schema: '<your_schema_name>'
```

### 2. Identify your Data Context Validation Results Store

In your ``great_expectations.yml``, look for the following lines.  The configuration tells Great Expectations to look for Validation Results in a Store called ``validations_store``. The ``base_directory`` for ``validations_store`` is set to ``uncommitted/validations/`` by default.

```yaml
validations_store_name: validations_store

stores:
  validations_store:
      class_name: ValidationsStore
      store_backend:
          class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
          base_directory: uncommitted/validations/
```

### 3. Update your configuration file to include a new Store for Validation Results on PostgreSQL

In our case, the name is set to ``validations_postgres_store``, but it can be any name you like.  We also need to make some changes to the ``store_backend`` settings.  The ``class_name`` will be set to ``DatabaseStoreBackend``, and ``credentials`` will be set to ``${db_creds}``, which references the corresponding key in the ``config_variables.yml`` file.

```yaml
validations_store_name: validations_postgres_store

stores:
  validations_postgres_store:
      class_name: ValidationsStore
      store_backend:
          class_name: DatabaseStoreBackend
          credentials: ${db_creds}
```


### 5. Confirm that the new Validation Results Store has been added by running ``great_expectations store list``

Notice the output contains two Validation stores: the original ``validations_store`` on the local filesystem and the ``validations_postgres_store`` we just configured.  This is ok, since Great Expectations will look for Validation Results in PostgreSQL as long as we set the ``validations_store_name`` variable to ``validations_postgres_store``. The config for ``validations_store`` can be removed if you would like.

```bash
great_expectations store list

- name: validations_store
class_name: ValidationsStore
store_backend:
  class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
  base_directory: uncommitted/validations/

- name: validations_postgres_store
class_name: ValidationsStore
store_backend:
  class_name: DatabaseStoreBackend
  credentials:
      database: '<your_db_name>'
      drivername: postgresql
      host: '<your_host_name>'
      password: ******
      port: '<your_port>'
      username: '<your_username>'
```

### 6. Confirm that the Validation Results Store has been correctly configured

[Run a Checkpoint](../../../tutorials/getting_started/validate_your_data.md) to store results in the new Validation Results store in PostgreSQL then visualize the results by [re-building Data Docs](../../../tutorials/getting_started/check_out_data_docs.md).

Behind the scenes, Great Expectations will create a new table in your database called ``ge_validations_store``, and populate the fields with information from the Validation Results.

Commit message:

- Added technical term tags to the edited documents.

docs/guides/setup/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_a_validation_result_store_to_postgresql.md, after:

---
title: How to configure a Validation Result Store to PostgreSQL
---
import Prerequisites from '../../connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'
import TechnicalTag from '@site/docs/term_tags/_tag.mdx';

By default, Validation Results are stored in JSON format in the ``uncommitted/validations/`` subdirectory of your ``great_expectations/`` folder.  Since <TechnicalTag tag="validation_result" text="Validation Results" /> may include examples of data (which could be sensitive or regulated) they should not be committed to a source control system.  This guide will help you configure Great Expectations to store them in a PostgreSQL database.

<Prerequisites>

- [Configured a Data Context](../../../tutorials/getting_started/initialize_a_data_context.md).
- [Configured an Expectations Suite](../../../tutorials/getting_started/create_your_first_expectations.md).
- [Configured a Checkpoint](../../../tutorials/getting_started/validate_your_data.md).
- [Configured a PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database with appropriate credentials.

</Prerequisites>

## Steps

### 1. Configure the ``config_variables.yml`` file with your database credentials

We recommend that database credentials be stored in the ``config_variables.yml`` file, which is located in the ``uncommitted/`` folder by default, and is not part of source control. The following lines add database credentials under the key ``db_creds``. Additional options for configuring the ``config_variables.yml`` file or additional environment variables can be found [here](../configuring_data_contexts/how_to_configure_credentials.md).

```yaml
db_creds:
  drivername: postgres
  host: '<your_host_name>'
  port: '<your_port>'
  username: '<your_username>'
  password: '<your_password>'
  database: '<your_database_name>'
```

It is also possible to specify `schema` as an additional keyword argument if you would like to use a specific schema as the backend, but this is entirely optional.

```yaml
db_creds:
  drivername: postgres
  host: '<your_host_name>'
  port: '<your_port>'
  username: '<your_username>'
  password: '<your_password>'
  database: '<your_database_name>'
  schema: '<your_schema_name>'
```

### 2. Identify your Data Context Validation Results Store

As with all <TechnicalTag tag="store" text="Stores" />, you can use your <TechnicalTag tag="data_context" text="Data Context" /> to find your <TechnicalTag tag="validation_result_store" text="Validation Results Store" />.  In your ``great_expectations.yml``, look for the following lines.  The configuration tells Great Expectations to look for Validation Results in a Store called ``validations_store``. The ``base_directory`` for ``validations_store`` is set to ``uncommitted/validations/`` by default.

```yaml
validations_store_name: validations_store

stores:
  validations_store:
      class_name: ValidationsStore
      store_backend:
          class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
          base_directory: uncommitted/validations/
```

### 3. Update your configuration file to include a new Store for Validation Results on PostgreSQL

In our case, the name is set to ``validations_postgres_store``, but it can be any name you like.  We also need to make some changes to the ``store_backend`` settings.  The ``class_name`` will be set to ``DatabaseStoreBackend``, and ``credentials`` will be set to ``${db_creds}``, which references the corresponding key in the ``config_variables.yml`` file.

```yaml
validations_store_name: validations_postgres_store

stores:
  validations_postgres_store:
      class_name: ValidationsStore
      store_backend:
          class_name: DatabaseStoreBackend
          credentials: ${db_creds}
```


### 5. Confirm that the new Validation Results Store has been added by running ``great_expectations store list``

Notice the output contains two Validation stores: the original ``validations_store`` on the local filesystem and the ``validations_postgres_store`` we just configured.  This is ok, since Great Expectations will look for Validation Results in PostgreSQL as long as we set the ``validations_store_name`` variable to ``validations_postgres_store``. The config for ``validations_store`` can be removed if you would like.

```bash
great_expectations store list

- name: validations_store
class_name: ValidationsStore
store_backend:
  class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
  base_directory: uncommitted/validations/

- name: validations_postgres_store
class_name: ValidationsStore
store_backend:
  class_name: DatabaseStoreBackend
  credentials:
      database: '<your_db_name>'
      drivername: postgresql
      host: '<your_host_name>'
      password: ******
      port: '<your_port>'
      username: '<your_username>'
```

### 6. Confirm that the Validation Results Store has been correctly configured

[Run a Checkpoint](../../../tutorials/getting_started/validate_your_data.md) to store results in the new Validation Results store in PostgreSQL then visualize the results by [re-building Data Docs](../../../tutorials/getting_started/check_out_data_docs.md).

Behind the scenes, Great Expectations will create a new table in your database called ``ge_validations_store``, and populate the fields with information from the Validation Results.
